# Capstone-Portfolio

Hello, my name is Ethan Lott. I am a senior computer science major at the University of St. Thomas. After school I intend to leverage my programming skills by working as a full-stack software engineer. Growing up I always knew that I wanted to work with computers. In high school I started learning how to code in my AP Computer Science course and volunteered as a student technology aide, which gave me a great foundation of knowledge. In my time studying computer science in college, I have expanded upon that knowledge base more than I could have hoped to. The skills I have gained in languages such as Java, JavaScript, Python, and experience with concepts such as Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming, and Web Design will stick with me throughout my career in this field. I am incredibly excited to continue learning and build upon what I was taught here at UST. Here are some of the projects I worked on during my time here:

Personal Website (https://github.com/ethan-lott01/ethan-lott01.github.io) - This is a portfolio website that I made in my web development class that can be accessed from this url (https://ethan-lott01.github.io). This was my first attempt at creating a website on my own, and it really helped my confidence with these concepts and technologies. It is entirely html and css and uses the Foundation 6 framework. It contains some smaller projects that I worked on in college, my resume in html, and more about me and my hobbies.

St. Paul Crime Map (https://github.com/ethan-lott01/webdev-rest) - This is a group project that I was a part of also in my web development class. My two group members and I first created an API that communicates with a St. Paul crime SQLite database. We then used a Vue JavaScript framework to create a single page application that calls our API. It also uses Leaflet and Nominatim API's for creating an interactive crime map of Saint Paul. The application also allows users to add their own reported crimes to the database.

Nutrition Statistics Project (link) - This is a group project that I worked on in one of my statistics classes. We used R throughout this class to create linear regression models and for this project. Our project sought to use data from Open Food Facts, a collaborative food products database, in order to create a regression model and predict how macronutrients, proteins, carbohydrates, and fats, impact the nutritional quality of different food products. After wrangling the nutrition score from categorical grades to integers, we constructed a model to predict nutrition score based of the amount of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats per one hundred grams of the food product. Our model gives us a good idea of what sort of impact three statistically significant micronutrients have on nutrition in respect to each other and overall nutritional value.
